# STATA_CODE
I expand upon previous studies such as Lillard et al (1999),  Khan et al (2007), and Miller et al (2007), on prescription drug use and expenditures. The methods used are similar to Miller et al (2007), however, my data is more recent and pooled from 2005-2015.


The data for this study comes from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS). MEPS surveys the U.S. civilian, non-institutionalized population. MEPS collection of data includes individual household demographic characteristics, health conditions, health status, use of medical services, charges and source of payments, access to care, satisfaction with care, health insurance coverage, income, and employment. The pooled data comes from MEPS Full-Year Consolidated files for the years 2005-2015. 4

I examine the same question of the association between the four levels of prescription drug coverage and prescription drug use and expenditures. My total sample includes 18,150 individuals. My dependent variables are prescription drug expenditures for individuals enrolled with prescription insurance coverage, and individuals who have prescription drug expenditures.  The insurance coverage variables include Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, VA, State, Private, and people who were uninsured as the “out group”. The “Point-in-time” estimate applies to specific people enrolled during the first of five rounds in the survey.

My additional sociodemographic control variables include binary variables for age (3 categories), 65-75, 75-84, 84 and older, race/ethnicity, gender, education, year, death or entry into an institution, and health status reported by a household member. I have 4 income categories: low class, working class, middle class, and upper class. The original study used income relative to the poverty line.  The attitudes variables are self- rated over-all health status of the individuals mental and physical health.  The beneficiary also reports on the MEPS survey if they have limited physical functions, limited cognition, difficulties in activities of daily living (ADL), or instrumental difficulties in activities in daily living (IADL). 

This study examines the association of four levels of prescription drug insurance coverage and prescription drug use and expenditures.
Predicting Drug Prescription Expenditures using a linear model along with a non-linear model (Logistic Regression) to capture the probability of use among seniors with
chronic illnesss.

The analysis shows that seniors who use prescription drugs, also tend to be associated with greater prescription drug expenditures. Specifically, Medicaid, and the VA/State had the highest coverage for prescription drug expenditures. On average, seniors with Medicare, Medicaid, and VA/State were more likely to have prescription drug use. Beneficiaries covered by prescription drug coverage in Medicare, Medicaid, Private, VA, who are Female, seniors living in the West, poor/fair general health, limited physical functioning, difficulties with IADLs, and older in age are associated with greater prescription drug expenditures. Seniors with a chronic condition, such as emphysema, were more likely to use prescription drugs, and increases prescription drug expenditures by 54%. Diabetes accounted for 35%, and stroke for 28%.

